doc/example_coder.rst, before:

PyMP Tutorial 2. Audio compression
==================================

We now assume you're familiar with PyMP and the different Pursuit types that can be performed
In this tutorial we illustrate the advantages of RSSMP in an audio compression context.

A Brief Introduction
--------------------

A much more detailed discussion on this can be found in the paper_ , let's just introduce the basics

.. _paper: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2012.03.019

Simple Sparse Encoding Scheme
*****************************
To encode an approximation :math:`\tilde{x}_m` of :math:`m` atoms, one needs to encode two things:

    - The indexes of the atoms in the dictionary
    
    - Their weights
    
The simplest encoding scheme is to encode each atom separately. In this setup the cost of encoding 
an atom's index is fixed and directly linked to the size of the dictionary. The cost of encoding 
an atom's weight is also fixed if we use a static midtread quantizer with :math:`2^Q` steps. 


Entropy coding
**************

There are many more efficient way of encoding sparse representation. One way is to adapt the quantization of the weights
to the exponentially decreasing bound of MP as done by Frossard et al 2004.

Another way is to use en entropic coder or any other source coding method after the quantization step. 
Finally, atom indexes can be redundant over time (especially when considering signal frames closely related in time)
All these scheme are situation-dependant and beyond the scope of this tutorial.

Coding Additional atom parameters
*********************************

Indexes coding costs are linked to the dictionary size, but in the case of adaptative pursuits (such as LOMP)
an additionnal parameter (e.g. a local optimal time-shift) must be transmitted as side-information.


Compressing Real Audio Signals
------------------------------

Encoding of standard MP decompositions
**************************************

Let us perform a MP decomposition of a 1 second audio exceprt of Glockenspiel using a 3xMDCT dictionary::

>>> from PyMP.mdct import Dico, LODico
>>> from PyMP.mdct.rand import SequenceDico
>>> from PyMP import mp, mp_coder, Signal
>>> sig = Signal('data/ClocheB.wav', mono=True)  # Load Signal
>>> sig.crop(0, 4.0 * sig.fs)     # Keep only 4 seconds
>>> # atom of scales 8, 64 and 512 ms
>>> scales = [(s * sig.fs / 1000) for s in (8, 64, 512)]
>>> sig.pad(scales[-1])
>>> # Dictionary for Standard MP
>>> mp_dico = Dico(scales)
>>> # Launching decomposition, stops either at 20 dB of SRR or 2000 iterations
>>> mp_approx, mp_decay = mp.mp(sig, mp_dico, 20, 2000, pad=False)

This should be relatively fast, the algorithm stops when it reaches 20 dB of SRR and a number of atoms determined by:

>>> mp_approx.atom_number
565

From the *mp_approx* object constructed we can now evaluate a (theoretical) rate and an associated distorsion by quantizing
the atoms weights and counting the cost of both indices and weights. To do that, we use the :func:`.simple_mdct_encoding` method
in the :mod:`.mp_coder` module. Here's an example where we set a target of 8kbps with a midtread uniform quantizer with :math:`2^{14}` steps

>>> snr, bitrate, quantized_approx = mp_coder.simple_mdct_encoding(mp_approx, 8000, Q=14)

And we can check the results:

>>> (snr, bitrate)
(20.01190738437829, 3472.723832808762)

In other words, we achieved a 20 dB SNR with a (theoretical) 3.4 kbps bitrate. We can change the coder properties, 
in particular the number of quantizing steps (recall this is :math:`2^Q`  and not directly Q!!):

>>> snr, bitrate, quantized_approx = mp_coder.simple_mdct_encoding(mp_approx, 8000, Q=5)
>>> (snr, bitrate)
(12.556647717619509, 997.2978829938947)

Indeed we have reduced the bitrate, but increased the distorsion. We can also fix the bitrate at a lower value:

>>> snr, bitrate, quantized_approx = mp_coder.simple_mdct_encoding(mp_approx, 2000, Q=14)
>>> (snr, bitrate)
(16.036869059550813, 2003.7309194613388)

The coder stopped when the given bitrate was reached, yieled a higher distorsion. If you wonder how many atoms where used:

>>> quantized_approx.atom_number
326

In order to listen to the results, you'll need to save the approximant as wav files:

>>> quantized_approx.recomposed_signal.write('data/ClocheB_quantized_2kbps.wav')

But a simple Time-Frequency plot already tells you there's going to be some highly disturbing artefacts:

.. plot:: pyplots/plot_encoded_cloche.py

Energy has appeared BEFORE the impact on the bell, this phenomemnon is called pre-echo artefact and is very common 
when using this type of dictionaries. Only two way to get rid of it: 

	- Increase the number of atoms (but since we want to compress that's not a good idea here)
	
	- Select Atoms that have a better fine correlation to the signal. This is the topic of the next example.


Encoding of Locally Optimized MP decompositions
***********************************************

Running a locally-optimized MP in an equivalent configuration accounts to using the appropriate dictionary.

>>> lomp_dico = LODico(scales)
>>> lomp_approx , lompDecay = mp.mp(sig, lomp_dico, 20, 2000, pad=False)  

.. warning::

	beware to set the option *pad* to `False`. Otherwise zeroes are added by default to the signal edges each time 
	you call MP on the same :class:`.Signal` object, this can mess up the bitrate since it is in bps!

An estimation of the SNR and bitrate achieved is done using the same function :func:`.simple_mdct_encoding` but with
the *shift_penalty* argument set to `True` in order to take the additionnal parameter cost into account

>>> lomp_snr, lomp_bitrate, lomp_quantized_approx = mp_coder.simple_mdct_encoding(lomp_approx, 2000, Q=14, shift_penalty=True)

Then one can check that the encoding is more efficient:

>>> (lomp_snr, lomp_bitrate)
(18.310386722535156, 2006.3726570767478)

For the same bitrate of 2 kbps, we now have an SNR of nearly 20 dB where a standard MP yielded a mere 16 dB. 
Each atom is more expensive, but also creates less dark energy. One can verify that the coder has used a 
lower number of Locally-optimized atoms:

>>> (quantized_approx.atom_number , lomp_quantized_approx.atom_number)
(326, 249)

Encoding of RSS MP decompositions
*********************************

Using RSS MP, one need not encode the additionnal time-shift parameter per atom, since we assume the pseudo-random 
sequence of subdictionaries is known both at the coder and decoder side. This is possible because this sequence is 
not signal-dependant.

>>> from PyMP.mdct.rand import SequenceDico
>>> rssmp_dico = SequenceDico(scales,'random')
>>> rssmp_approx = mp.mp(sig, rssmp_dico, 20, 2000, pad=False) [0] 
>>> rssmp_snr, rssmp_bitrate, rssmp_quantized_approx = mp_coder.simple_mdct_encoding(rssmp_approx, 2000, Q=14)

Now we can check that RSSMP atoms are much more efficient at representing the signal than the ones selected in a 
fixed dictionary, but the cost of each atom is the same thus:

>>> (rssmp_snr,rssmp_bitrate)
(18.938171653961721, 2003.7309194613388)

And we can verify:

>>> (quantized_approx.atom_number,  lomp_quantized_approx.atom_number , rssmp_quantized_approx.atom_number)
(326, 249, 326)

You can now compare these approach for different signals and dictionaries either directly with the given SNR and bitrate values,
or by listening to the diverse solutions:

>>> lomp_quantized_approx.recomposed_signal.write('data/ClocheB_LOMP_quantized_2kbps.wav')
>>> rssmp_quantized_approx.recomposed_signal.write('data/ClocheB_RSSMP_quantized_2kbps.wav')

And that concludes this tutorial.

Additionnal documentation
-------------------------
here's the documentation of the method used in this tutorial

	.. automodule:: PyMP.mp_coder
		:members: simple_mdct_encoding

Commit message:

minor changes doc. added a seed parameter to random dictionaries in order to reproduce results, also added the test to make sure it works

doc/example_coder.rst, after:

PyMP Tutorial 2. Audio compression
==================================

We now assume you're familiar with PyMP and the different Pursuit types that can be performed
In this tutorial we illustrate the advantages of RSSMP in an audio compression context.

A Brief Introduction
--------------------

A much more detailed discussion on this can be found in the paper_ , let's just introduce the basics

.. _paper: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.sigpro.2012.03.019

Simple Sparse Encoding Scheme
*****************************
To encode an approximation :math:`\tilde{x}_m` of :math:`m` atoms, one needs to encode two things:

    - The indexes of the atoms in the dictionary
    
    - Their weights
    
The simplest encoding scheme is to encode each atom separately. In this setup the cost of encoding 
an atom's index is fixed and directly linked to the size of the dictionary. The cost of encoding 
an atom's weight is also fixed if we use a static midtread quantizer with :math:`2^Q` steps. 


Entropy coding
**************

There are many more efficient way of encoding sparse representation. One way is to adapt the quantization of the weights
to the exponentially decreasing bound of MP as done by Frossard et al 2004.

Another way is to use en entropic coder or any other source coding method after the quantization step. 
Finally, atom indexes can be redundant over time (especially when considering signal frames closely related in time)
All these scheme are situation-dependant and beyond the scope of this tutorial.

Coding Additional atom parameters
*********************************

Indexes coding costs are linked to the dictionary size, but in the case of adaptative pursuits (such as LOMP)
an additionnal parameter (e.g. a local optimal time-shift) must be transmitted as side-information.


Compressing Real Audio Signals
------------------------------

Encoding of standard MP decompositions
**************************************

Let us perform a MP decomposition of a 1 second audio exceprt of Glockenspiel using a 3xMDCT dictionary::

>>> from PyMP.mdct import Dico, LODico
>>> from PyMP.mdct.rand import SequenceDico
>>> from PyMP import mp, mp_coder, Signal
>>> sig = Signal('data/ClocheB.wav', mono=True)  # Load Signal
>>> sig.crop(0, 4.0 * sig.fs)     # Keep only 4 seconds
>>> # atom of scales 8, 64 and 512 ms
>>> scales = [(s * sig.fs / 1000) for s in (8, 64, 512)]
>>> sig.pad(scales[-1])
>>> # Dictionary for Standard MP
>>> mp_dico = Dico(scales)
>>> # Launching decomposition, stops either at 20 dB of SRR or 2000 iterations
>>> mp_approx, mp_decay = mp.mp(sig, mp_dico, 20, 2000, pad=False)

This should be relatively fast, the algorithm stops when it reaches 20 dB of SRR and a number of atoms determined by:

>>> mp_approx.atom_number
565

From the *mp_approx* object constructed we can now evaluate a (theoretical) rate and an associated distorsion by quantizing
the atoms weights and counting the cost of both indices and weights. To do that, we use the :func:`.simple_mdct_encoding` method
in the :mod:`.mp_coder` module. Here's an example where we set a target of 8kbps with a midtread uniform quantizer with :math:`2^{14}` steps

>>> snr, bitrate, quantized_approx = mp_coder.simple_mdct_encoding(mp_approx, 8000, Q=14)

And we can check the results:

>>> (snr, bitrate)
(20.01190738437829, 3472.723832808762)

In other words, we achieved a 20 dB SNR with a (theoretical) 3.4 kbps bitrate. We can change the coder properties, 
in particular the number of quantizing steps (recall this is :math:`2^Q`  and not directly Q!!):

>>> snr, bitrate, quantized_approx = mp_coder.simple_mdct_encoding(mp_approx, 8000, Q=5)
>>> (snr, bitrate)
(12.556647717619509, 997.2978829938947)

Indeed we have reduced the bitrate, but increased the distorsion. We can also fix the bitrate at a lower value:

>>> snr, bitrate, quantized_approx = mp_coder.simple_mdct_encoding(mp_approx, 2000, Q=14)
>>> (snr, bitrate)
(16.036869059550813, 2003.7309194613388)

The coder stopped when the given bitrate was reached, yieled a higher distorsion. If you wonder how many atoms where used:

>>> quantized_approx.atom_number
326

In order to listen to the results, you'll need to save the approximant as wav files:

>>> quantized_approx.recomposed_signal.write('data/ClocheB_quantized_2kbps.wav')

But a simple Time-Frequency plot already tells you there's going to be some highly disturbing artefacts:

.. plot:: pyplots/plot_encoded_cloche.py

Energy has appeared BEFORE the impact on the bell, this phenomemnon is called pre-echo artefact and is very common 
when using this type of dictionaries. Only two way to get rid of it: 

	- Increase the number of atoms (but since we want to compress that's not a good idea here)
	
	- Select Atoms that have a better fine correlation to the signal. This is the topic of the next example.


Encoding of Locally Optimized MP decompositions
***********************************************

Running a locally-optimized MP in an equivalent configuration accounts to using the appropriate dictionary.

>>> lomp_dico = LODico(scales)
>>> lomp_approx , lompDecay = mp.mp(sig, lomp_dico, 20, 2000, pad=False)  

.. warning::

	beware to set the option *pad* to `False`. Otherwise zeroes are added by default to the signal edges each time 
	you call MP on the same :class:`.Signal` object, this can mess up the bitrate since it is in bps!

An estimation of the SNR and bitrate achieved is done using the same function :func:`.simple_mdct_encoding` but with
the *shift_penalty* argument set to `True` in order to take the additionnal parameter cost into account

>>> lomp_snr, lomp_bitrate, lomp_quantized_approx = mp_coder.simple_mdct_encoding(lomp_approx, 2000, Q=14, shift_penalty=True)

Then one can check that the encoding is more efficient:

>>> (lomp_snr, lomp_bitrate)
(18.310386722535156, 2006.3726570767478)

For the same bitrate of 2 kbps, we now have an SNR of nearly 20 dB where a standard MP yielded a mere 16 dB. 
Each atom is more expensive, but also creates less dark energy. One can verify that the coder has used a 
lower number of Locally-optimized atoms:

>>> (quantized_approx.atom_number , lomp_quantized_approx.atom_number)
(326, 249)

Encoding of RSS MP decompositions
*********************************

Using RSS MP, one need not encode the additionnal time-shift parameter per atom, since we assume the pseudo-random 
sequence of subdictionaries is known both at the coder and decoder side. This is possible because this sequence is 
not signal-dependant.

>>> from PyMP.mdct.rand import SequenceDico
>>> rssmp_dico = SequenceDico(scales, 'random', seed=42)
>>> rssmp_approx = mp.mp(sig, rssmp_dico, 20, 2000, pad=False) [0] 
>>> rssmp_snr, rssmp_bitrate, rssmp_quantized_approx = mp_coder.simple_mdct_encoding(rssmp_approx, 2000, Q=14)

Now we can check that RSSMP atoms are much more efficient at representing the signal than the ones selected in a 
fixed dictionary, but the cost of each atom is the same thus:

>>> (rssmp_snr,rssmp_bitrate)
(18.931437384835085, 2003.7309194613388)

.. note::

   In order to allow to reproduce results, you can set the *seed* optionnal parameter of the
   :class:‘.SequenceDico‘ object


And we can verify:

>>> (quantized_approx.atom_number,  lomp_quantized_approx.atom_number , rssmp_quantized_approx.atom_number)
(326, 249, 326)

You can now compare these approach for different signals and dictionaries either directly with the given SNR and bitrate values,
or by listening to the diverse solutions:

>>> lomp_quantized_approx.recomposed_signal.write('data/ClocheB_LOMP_quantized_2kbps.wav')
>>> rssmp_quantized_approx.recomposed_signal.write('data/ClocheB_RSSMP_quantized_2kbps.wav')

And that concludes this tutorial.

Additionnal documentation
-------------------------
here's the documentation of the method used in this tutorial

	.. automodule:: PyMP.mp_coder
		:members: simple_mdct_encoding
